So we're able to fetch data for a stock symbol entered by the user and we'll later add a component where
the user can search for stock symbols because you might not know them all by heart but this is now working.
Now we are getting that user value with the help of query selector and nothing is wrong with this approach,
we can absolutely extract the stock value, the entered stock symbol in this way
but there is another way too. We can use a feature called references and that can be very helpful as
well.
Instead of using our root element, I'll leave it here but I'll not use it anymore,
we can add a normal property without any decorator and I'll name this stock input and this will be of
type HTML input element.
Now this should hold a reference to that element in our DOM and for that, we just need to go down to
the render function, to that element for which we want to assign a reference,
in this case, this input and there, I add the special ref property and that is a feature added by stencil,
it will then hook this up to the property we want to hook it up to behind the scenes.
Ref takes a function as an argument where we'll get the element and then, we can set this stock input or
whichever property you want to use,
so whichever property you created, in my case it is stock input,
we set this stock input equal to the element.
So this arrow function here is executed for us by stencil because ref is a feature by stencil and this
will give us a connection to that input, it will give us direct access to this input or to whichever
element we added this to.
So I can use stock input here to get my data,
so instead of extracting stock symbol like this, I can extract stock symbol by accessing this stock input
value and here, Typescript has no problem with me accessing value because I already declared that this
will be an input element.
And now with that, if I go back and I enter Apple again here, this looks quite good.
So now this works too with a reference instead of query selector and so on and it's up to you which
approach you use,
it's also up to you how much you need to work with your element, if you do a lot of query selecting for
example, then you might want to use this approach with the HTML element query selectors.
If you only need access to some elements in your DOM, well then maybe using a reference is better
but ultimately it's up to you,
it is worth knowing these two alternatives though.